# Kalpak Tapas

I found that I tend at times, to hook upon a particular thought, incident or memory involuntarily, and analyse it to the extent of going into a trance. When people started bringing me back to reality by poking and prodding, I realized that my thoughts straying constantly without boundary need to be reined in, organized and assimilated to keep snapshots for the record. I observe, analyse and in course of time, observe myself doing the analysis â€” in effect paralysing the outcome.

Wow, I never thought writing an about page would be this hard. It really makes
for some serious introspection.

I am a computer science major currently living in Hyderabad, India and working
for Microsoft. I started writing on a wordpress blog two years ago, but didn't
like the lack of control over presentation. I couldn't bring myself to write
content consistently because I never liked the limitations of what I could do in
presentation (at least that's what I like to tell myself, I'm totally not lazy
or anything).  Anyway, I was introduced to this static site generator called
Hugo, which gave me hope of creating the perfect blogging experience. Due to
reasons, which I hope to mention in a proper article, within a month I was
disliking it again, and I realized that what I wanted could only be found by
starting from the basics.

I have never done front end web development before, but once I started learning
CSS, I knew I had finally found the tool I was looking for. I came up
with this site after about three months of tinkering around, and I liked what I
came up with. So I'm finally publishing it, custom domain name and everything,
under the beauty that is Github Pages. This site is still under development -
the awesome new features of CSS3 are calling out to me and I expect that I'll be
using this site as a playground for them in the coming months. As of now though,
I believe this simple layout is sufficient for me. But do expect things to change from
time to time.

I am a dabbler of sorts - I keep getting interested in a lot of things and like
to try them out. I play the piano a bit and have a few of my recordings on
[Soundcloud](www.soundcloud.com/kalpak-tapas). I am passionate about reading and
try to read as much as possible. I do expect to post book reviews every now and
then. I am also a fan of the Arch Linux philosophy of simplicity. Needless to
say, it is my favorite Linux distro. I love working with the keyboard and mostly
on the command line. Vim is my editor of choice and ever since I begain using
it, my laziness of writing has drastically reduced. I've never had so much fun
while typing.

I also like to play video games. Collectible card games are currently a thing with me
and I used to be a big fan of Hearthstone. I still play it from time to time,
but it's becoming more and more of a gamble to obtain decent cards even if you
pay for them. Hence I've laid back into the simpler, free to play life. The
Witcher 3 was a huge revelation to me with regard to storytelling and immersive
experiences. I still have to finish it, but it completely blew me away. I like
strategy/simulation games like the Civilization series and Kerbal Space Program.
Civilization V is the only game I've actually played, since I've only recently
built a decent gaming rig. Kerbal Space Program is a whole different ballpark.
The feel of looking at the blue earth in sky from the rocky surface of the moon
where you reached after long hours of building, launching and landing a
spaceship built from scratch, is extremely humbling.

I hope to write more regularly from now on, about all my experiences and
dabblings. All content on this site is licensed under Creative Commons
Attribution Sharealike, which in simple terms implies that it is free to be
shared, published and remixed in any form as long as proper attribution is
included and the resulting content is similarly licensed.

That's about it for now. I'll be updating this spot as and when I learn new
things about the world and myself. Thanks for reading, and hope you enjoy the
content.


--Kalpak
