This is an attempt to make a 1000 words better than a picture.

I'm on a train to Hyderabad. I am sitting on the (side) lower berth with my back
pressed against the divider between two sections. It is around 1 am in the night
and I'm peering through the glass. People who stop looking out of the window at
night because there's nothing to see are wrong. I see a new side to the
surroundings: a different, quieter side which I like. Rocking softly back and
forth I see streams of light passing by as the train hurtles into the blackness.
Abandoned railway platforms, roads bathed in soft yellow from streetlights. I
see a town I think, or is it a city? I see some buildings which have passed me
by. It is almost definitely a town I think. A town on the outskirts of a city
most likely.  I check the time and remind myself that I am expecting to reach
Pune around this point.

It looks like a factory, with a fortress around it. A small patch of houses,
weak ones with tarpaulin on the roof to protect against the rains but won't
probably stand any chance in the wind. I see shanties, clobbered small roads and
a bridge overlooking a river: the cliche of railway movie escapades. I seem to
be slowly coming up on the city: the train seems to slow down a bit. Wow, people
really love bright halogen lamps around here. A red signal blinks red and tries
to stop an oil tanker which does not stop. The tankers and trucks are the Kings
of the Night. As the world sleeps, they will awake to life and, ahem, freedom.
They are like the Cockroaches of the Night. As day comes, they will hide
somewhere and get their entire night's time worth of sleep. They will scurry
away when darkness falls again.

I enter a dark area (has the city passed?) and I see light streaming out of the
train from the window ahead of me. There are probably some nyctophiles ahead
too. Or maybe they just forgot to switch off the light, which seems more likely.
We are few in number I think - at least in this particular train.

The dark was a red herring however, and I'm suddenly bang in the middle of a
station on which this train is mostly going to halt, judging by its speed. The
words A.C chair car, blaze out at me from the Deccan Queen which I can observe
parked in the track next to mine. And now the train has stopped. I see no
platform come up, and so, conclude that this seems to be a halt before the
actual halt. My recent experiences with the Indian Railways, have been pretty
lovely. The trains usually love the fact that I have boarded them and don't like
to see me get off soon. As I result, I've reached my destination late by
anywhere between 3 to 6 hours in the past few months. This train promises to be
no exception: as soon as I boarded it, I was greeted by the ticket invigilator's
grim warning. Apparently we were going to take a diversion along the way and
take a longer route, which will take anywhere between 1-2 hours more to reach.
You see, trains love me.

We've started moving and I see the familiar interweb of railway tracks before we
reach a major station. Tea vendors are scurrying around the platform, waiting in
place before they come aboard. I close my curtain to save myself from poking and
prying eyes that may or may not board the train, hopeing they leave me in peace.
It's been quite a while since I've come up with something to write.

A cool female voice announces the arival of my train on Pune station sorely for
the benefit of tea vendors to start trying to sell tea to snoring passengers.
Long gone are the days of railway platforms which stay quiet in the night. I
hear modest bustling around in my coach as someone who's made their way in tries
to lock their luggage with a chain to the bottom of their seat. It needs to be
secure because someone might steal it. They are still fumbling around with it,
probably crippled by the absence of light. I peek around my curtain in
curiosity: they are hidden behind their own curtain, but I see the light getting
switched on.

The cool female voice announces my 'superfast' train's arrival which is probably
going to get late anyway. If only all voices were as polite as this cool young
voice, we probably won't have any problems and would live in utopia. Again, that
may be a problem in itself, so I'm confused. I see a man sitting just outside my
window fiddling around with his cell phone while plugged into a wall outlet. He
is probably reading something important and trying to learn something new.

The train has started moving and I am mildly thankful that no one seems to have
arrived to claim the side upper berth above me. I might have a free rein over my
side of the train tomorrow morning: when I'm gonna be late for office and will
probably be able to reach only after lunch, this is probably going to be my
silver lining.

There are paintings on the walls of this platform. A collection of handprints
occupying a wall in the background of a blaring "Saare jaahaan se accha" catches
my eye. I try to think of one thing in which we are better than the world.
Mangalyaan comes to mind, mostly because I saw a documentary on it yesterday. I
wonder if the song writer knew this when he wrote that song, or if it was purely
wishful thinking at that point. Better than the world. Sure.

I am kind of regretting giving away my nice upper berth for a side lower one as
no air reaching me is conditioned enough in this A/C compartment. I feel
perspiration is going to be a bit of a problem. Aah well, at least I get my
window and the scene keeps changing before me: better than what they show on
cable TV here anyway.

The train has left the station and gathered speed now. All those city houses and
buildings are gone behind me and I see outskirts again. Small clusters of houses
with small porches and even smaller lamps. They seem to be getting more and more
sparse now. The train is superfast. Very soon the only thing I can see ouside
are pinpricks of white light and the reflection of my own laptop screen on the
window. I try to peer into the darkness and see an isolated light in the
distance. I wonder what it is. Some old shack in which someone might be sleeping
at this hour. They don't know that I'm writing about them. They will simply get
up in the morning and go around business as usual.

I open the curtain to try to get some cool air. I should probably be sleeping
but I feel awake as I always do when my circadian rhythm has adapted itself
differently. I see something called "Tej Platinum" making its presence felt in
big blue neon signs out in the night. I wonder if the presence being made felt
is so necessary this late: with the self explanatory name and everything. The
mind of someone who codes for a living falls prey to the occupational hazard of
making ridiculous pet peeves out of inefficient expression of information. This
coming from someone who's written a thousand words out of practically nothing
may be a bit of hypocrisy, since it's probably still less than what a picture
would have said. I do not want to be this hypocrite, and so I will shed a bit of
modesty by saying that to me at least, a thousand words like these are better
than a picture anyway.

A picture you see, has to be observed correctly for it to equal a thousand words
in any way. With probably more than a half of the pictures taken by smart phone
cameras around the world today being selfies, I wonder if this is true. Maybe if
you sit in front of it and try to come up with things you don't see or which you
wished you saw, or have convinced yourself that you are seeing, maybe then, you
can come up with a thousand words which are no equal to your interpretation. But
then with the flood of pictures in the Cloud today, of varied versions of
duckfaces and self indulgences, I repeatedly keep questioning this old saying.

I was sitting in a restaurant in Hyderabad waiting for my food when an old man
and (presumably) his daughter came in and sat at the table beside me. They
looked at the menu, and said not a word to one another. The waiter came by and
each of them gave their separate order. The girl received an important message
on her phone which she started reading with great focus. Her father looked at
the menu card, probably thinking over what to get next. He saw the glass of
water and drank a sip. Shortly afterwards, the waiter brought over their food
and they ate in silence. The girl probably talked once to her father to clarify
on something he was thinking of ordering. They finished eating and left. Beside
them were a family of four, with two children each fiddling around on (a) a
smart phone and (b) an iPad, while the irate father yelled at the waiter for
messing up their order and the mother was casting furtive distrustful glances of
hate at the creepy bearded dude two tables away who was eating alone and
watching her children do important stuff on nice 16 million color screens.

I check my word count in the sweet vim-airline status bar and see that I have
crossed a thousand five hundred. I mentally high five myself and look out the
window again.
